> Have you heard of Correctness-Driven Development?

Perhaps not, but no worries. It's a term recently coined by myself and a fellow software engineer as a concept that removes much of the misunderstanding associated with Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) and Test-Driven Development (TDD). The goal of both practices is really quite simple, define correctness before writing code.

> **True story**: _A few years back I’m chatting with a Dev Manager whose team I had previously coached. Naturally, this conversation occurred at a water cooler, coffee station, soda machine – take your pick. I asked, “how’s the project progressing?” He replied, “challenging … we’re way behind schedule”. I asked, “so what are you going to do about it?” He says, “I’m going to cut back on testing …” I waited for him to laugh and say he was joking. The look in his eyes said it all, he was dead serious._

The web app, Correctness-DrivenDevelopment.com, is comprised of an informational web site, instructional videos and a software repo filled with tests and code. Collectively, these assets are used to provide Technical Coaching to teams on the what and how of Behavior-Driven Development (BDD) and Test-Driven Development (TDD). In our workshops and trainings, teams will come to understand that TDD is **not** a developer testing and that BDD is **not** the business writing tests. Instead TDD is a developer designing.  And BDD engages the business to drive design based upon business’ vision of the system’s behaviors. Along the way we may even explore the connection that TDD/BDD has to Acceptance Test-Driven Development (ATDD).  

As a vehicle to explore BDD and TDD as connected cycles, we will expose an existing batch payroll application to the network, for access by applications, browsers and mobile devices. This project is real-world; exposing legacy applications to the network is a typical challenge that many enterprises encounter when needing to extending the life of critical business applications. We will create a ReSTful API wrapper for the payroll application and the required modifications of the payroll application; where all coding for this project will be performed in a manner where no code is written unless first coerced by a test. 

Naturally one might ask why perform BDD or even TDD. Isn’t manual testing  and unit testing sufficient? 

> **Another true story**: _I recently conducted a series of full day TDD workshops for an organization. They have a java tech-stack with numerous legacy applications. I observed that many of the applications contained no more than 15% test coverage, and was informed that tests were largely written after the code was developed. The Developer opinion on unit testing was generally that it was difficult or not worth the effort.  The Tester opinion on test automation was it seems beneficial but QA doesn’t code and doesn’t work closely with the developers. And Management, well … they indicated that adhering to Delivery Dates was critical to the organization, further stating “we see the need to change how we test but planning for it takes too much time.”   
See https://github.com/Bill-A/Correctness-DrivenDevelopment/wiki/0:-Organizational-Dysfunctions-on-Testing for a running collection of examples we've experienced with Organizational Dysfunctions on Testing._

Software testing, as implemented in many organizations, is wildly out of sync with software development. Just consider how beneficial it would be if whenever a new feature is added to the system there existed a test environment, already set up, which can be run with a single command to figure out whether a new feature introduces new bugs. That is but one of the byproducts of implementing BDD and TDD.